---
id: serializer
filename: serializer
title: Serializer Module
prev: core/net.html
next: core/codegen.html
nav-menu: core
layout: core
description: One of the fastest Serializers available nowadays implemented using bytecode generator.
keywords: serializer,java,java framework,java for beginners,object serialization,spring alternative,bytecode generator
---

Serializer module is a bytecode generator of extremely fast and space efficient serializers, which are used for 
transferring data over wire or persisting it into a file system or database.

* Schema-less approach for maximum performance and compactness (unlike other serializers, there is no overhead 
in typed values)
* Implemented using runtime bytecode generation, to be compatible with dynamically created classes (like intermediate 
POJOs created with [Codegen](/docs/core/codegen.html) module)

A common usage for **Serializer** is to pass some serialized class instances through the network to 
remote machines for further processing. This approach is used in [RPC](/docs/cloud/rpc.html), 
[Dataflow](/docs/cloud/dataflow.html) and 
[LSM Tree OLAP Cube](/docs/cloud/cube.html) modules. 

You can add Serializer module to your project by inserting dependency in `pom.xml`: 

{% highlight xml %}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.datakernel</groupId>
    <artifactId>datakernel-serializer</artifactId>
    <version>{{site_datakernel_version}}</version>
</dependency>
{% endhighlight %}

## Examples

1. [Simple Object Serialization Example](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/SimpleObjectExample.java) - 
serialization and deserialization of a simple object.
2. [Complex Object Serialization Example](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/ComplexObjectExample.java) - 
serialization and deserialization of a more complex object which contains nullable fields, map, list and a two-dimensional array.
3. [Fixed Size Fields Serialization Example](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/FixedSizeFieldsExample.java) - 
example of serialization and deserialization of an object with fixed size fields.
4. [Generics And Interfaces Serialization Example](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/GenericsAndInterfacesExample.java) - 
example of using generics and interfaces with serializers and deserializers.

{% include note.html content="To run the examples, you need to clone DataKernel from GitHub: 
<br> <b>$ git clone https://github.com/softindex/datakernel</b> 
<br> And import it as a Maven project. Before running the examples, build the project." %}

All of the examples consistently serialize and deserialize objects of different complexity.
 
If you run the **Simple Object Serialization Example**, you'll get the following output:
{% highlight bash %}
10 10
abc abc
20 20
30 30
40 40
123 123
{% endhighlight %}

The first column represents values of *testData1*, the second - of *testData2*. *testData2* was 
created with the help of serialization and deserialization of the *testData1*.

In order to create classes whose instances can be serialized/deserialized, special annotations should be used:
* *@Serialize* annotation with order number on property getter. Ordering provides better compatibility in case 
classes are changed.
* *@Deserialize* annotation with property name (which should be same as in getter) in constructor.
* *@SerializeNullable* on properties that can have null values.

For example, 
{% highlight java %}
{% github_sample /softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/SimpleObjectExample.java tag:REGION_1 %}
	...
{% endhighlight %}

Next, we need to create our `BinarySerializer` with the help of `BinaryBuilder`:
{% highlight java %}
{% github_sample /softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/SimpleObjectExample.java tag:REGION_2 %}
{% endhighlight %}

Generated bytecode of `BinarySerializer` will be saved in your working directory.

**Complex Object Serialization Example** is an example of serialization and deserialization of a more complex object, 
which contains nullable fields, map, list and a two-dimensional array. If you run the example, you'll receive the 
following output:
{% highlight bash %}
null null
abc abc
[a, null, b] [a, null, b]
2 2
[a, null] [a, null]
null null
{1=abc, 2=null, null=xyz} {null=xyz, 1=abc, 2=null}
{% endhighlight %}

You can explore the example [here](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/ComplexObjectExample.java).

**Generics and Interfaces Serialization Example** represents how to use generics and interfaces with serializers and 
deserializers. If you run the example, you'll receive the following output:

{% highlight bash %}
2 2 
10 a, 10 a
20 b, 20 b
{% endhighlight %}

You can explore the example [here](https://github.com/softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/GenericsAndInterfacesExample.java).

If you run **Fixed Size Fields Serialization Example**, you'll get the following output:
{% highlight bash %}
[abc, null, 123, superfluous] [abc, null, 123]
[1, 2, 3, 4] [1, 2, 3, 4]
{% endhighlight %}

As you can see in the first line, `dataObject2` differs from `dataObject1`. This is because `@SerializeFixedSize` 
annotation  was set at value `3` for the String array. Thus, "superfluous" was removed from the array while serialization:

{% highlight java %}
{% github_sample /softindex/datakernel/blob/master/examples/core/serializer/src/main/java/FixedSizeFieldsExample.java tag:REGION_1 %}
{% endhighlight %}